# consensus
A webapp for capturing, understanding, and collaboratively building scientific consensus. Motivated by the replication crisis.

## Motivation
### What is scientific consensus?
Scientific consensus, as I define it, is the aggregation of all of the knowledge generated by scientific processes into beliefs about reality (with each belief possessing some degree of certainty and uncertainty). If we think of reality as a vast, unexplored territory, scientific consensus is humanity's best shot at making a map of that territory. This map is composed of beliefs (beliefs about how reality works). We are certain about some parts but uncertain about other parts of our map. Parts of reality are completely uncharted (or even unchart*able*). 

This definition may differ slightly from mainstream usage - in which consensus is simply "agreement between scientists". My definition of consensus allows for disagreement between scientists. Scientists can disagree, but we can still make changes to our map based on that information. For example, if we know that scientists are split 50/50 about a specific belief, we can update our map to indicate that we are uncertain about that particular belief. If we only cared about agreement, we would miss out on that bit of knowledge. Our map would have a blank spot until scientists sorted themselves out and came to some sort of agreement about a belief. If we pay attention to disagreement, we can fill out our map even if we aren't highly certain about a specific belief. And, most importantly, we can use that map to make decisions. A blank spot doesn't tell us *anything*. A fuzzy spot does. If you can think of a more accurate word, let me know (I'd rather not defy mainstream usage).

### What's the problem with it?
The problem is that that map is hard to read. There's no central place that you can visit to determine the state of scientific consensus. This seems like a critical gap. Think about the following questions that someone might want to ask
  * I saw a news report that certain poses boost confidence and lower stress. What does the scientific community think about that claim? Are they certain or uncertain that it is true or false?
  * My friend says that vaccines cause autism. They sent me a link to a scientific study which supports their position. I don't know how to evaluate the study. What do other scientists think about it? How do I know whether to trust the conclusions of this study? Does it contain methodological errors? Is their data analysis flawed? Has it been reproduced successfully or unsuccessfully?
  * I'm reading a paper that cites other papers. Should I trust the conclusions of those other papers?
  * I found a study on some online journal. Has the study been peer reviewed? Did they find any problems? Has the study replicated?
  
Think of how many problems might have been avoided if these questions were not so hard to answer. Currently, anyone who wants to answer these questions would need to do a LOT of work. I would guess that most people wouldn't even know where to start. Asking a scientist isn't a viable option because they are busy people, and who knows if you're asking the *right* scientist. You shouldn't trust someone just because they say they are a scientist. You could turn to Wikipedia, but it isn't designed to answer those questions.
  
Unfortunately, scientific consensus is not a big, magical list containing everything the scientific community has collectively agreed upon as being true or false. There's 2 key points to that observation:
1. It is not centralized in an easily-accessible list which is continuously updated by some magical process which extracts scientists' current beliefs and aggregates them.
2. It is not a collection of beliefs that are held to be definitely true or definitely false. Scientific consensus involves uncertainty and nebulousity. It is not unanimous. As science goes on, certanties shift.

No, there is no magical list. Instead, there are scientists and papers. Consensus is an emergent phenomenon that arises out of the collective knowledge and interaction of individual scientists. Even when scientists do not explicitly "come to consensus" by holding a big meeting to decide what they think and then telling the press, the building blocks of consensus are still there - peer reivew, replication, conferences, etc... But in order to get at that consensus, we'd need to ask the right scientists what they believe and we'd need to look at the papers and the studies and we'd need to aggregate that information in order to come to an informed conclusion. If you asked any individual scientist what THEY believed, you would not be getting the full picture.

With this webapp, I plan to make that magical list. I want to provide a centralized place that will help you answer questions like the ones mentioned above. I also want to provide a place where consensus-building can take place. I think such a solution would have these basic features:
 * Detailed information about specific papers. What do peer reivewers think? If it's a study, has it been replicated? Overall, how confidently do scientists believe in the conclusions of the paper? If the paper does not come to any conclusions, how useful is it? Maybe some sort of rating system is in order (like stackoverflow answers).
 * A place for peer-reviewing and evaluating papers.
 * The ability to view all of the papers that pertain to a particular hypothesis.
 
# Dev Instructions
## Configuring and Initializing Database
You must have a running MariaDB to point to where you want the data to be stored. It will be stored in a new database
called consensus. To configure for your environment, simply
make a copy of template.gradle.properties and rename it gradle.properties, then fill in the blanks.

Once that has been configured, run the "initializeDB" gradle task. Once you have done this, whenever you want
to make sure your database is up-to-date with what has been checked in, you can run the "updateDB" task.

This app consists of a frontend server (using gulp-connect) and a separate webservice server using
spring boot. By default, the frontend runs on port 8080 and the webservice runs on port 3000. You can change those
by modifying the ports in gulpfile.js and application.properties, respectively.

## Running and Developing
For development, this app consists of a frontend server (using gulp-connect) and a separate webservice server using
spring boot. It also consists of a MariaDB.

To initialize your database from scratch (or re-initialize it from scratch), run the "initializeDB" task. 
To make sure your database is up to date, simply run the "updateDB" task.

### Running servers
To start the webservice, run the "webserviceRun" task.
To start the frontend, run the "frontendRun" task.
Run the "frontendWatch" task so that frontend files will be automatically built and deployed when they are changed.

### Making changes
As long as you are running "frontendWatch", any frontend changes you make will cause the frontend to be compiled
and deployed.

Whenever you make webservice changes, running the "buildWebservice" task should cause the server to restart and the
changes to be applied.

Whenever you make changes to the database, you should make them in liquibaseDatabaseChangelog.xml. You can then apply 
them using the updateDB task

